.TH undervest 8 "Feb 28, 2014"
.SH NAME
undervest \- A sendmail filter to check and/or fix e-mail recipient addresses.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B undervest
.RB [ \-d\  ...]
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-c\ \fIconfiguration_file\fP ]
.RB [ \-u\ \fIuser\fP ]
.RB [ \-g\ \fIgroup\fP ]
.RB [ \-j\ \fIjail_directory\fP ]
.RB \fIsocket\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Undervest is a milter capable of checking e-mail recipient addresses against
local or remote valid address lists, and even fix address misspelling in some
cases.
.P
These functions are particularly useful when:
.IP "-" 2em
MTA is used as a relay for a domain whose recipients are unknown.
.IP "-" 2em
Some error-tolerant routing is desired, even for local domains.
.IP "-" 2em
A local user relay address is provided to capture mail to unknown
users, but some level of filtering is desired.
.P
To perform this filtering, undervest should obtain the full recipient address
list for the filtered domain. Listing all possible address sources for a domain
is under the responsibility of the configurator. Failure to this will surely
cause rejection of valid addresses.
.SS "Domain address loaders"
These are external plugins responsible to obtain the valid address list for
a particular domain.
.P
At the time of this writing, there are two loaders:
.IP sendmail 10em
This loader reads a file, seeking for lines begining with a recipient name
or target domain's e-mail address followed by a colon (\fB:\fR). Invalid
lines are ignored.
This loader is mainly designed to get local addresses from /etc/passwd and
/etc/aliases. It is not possible to process addresses with wildcards.
.IP ldap 10em
LDAP servers can be queried for recipient addresses using this loader. LDAP
attributes containing addresses must be listed in the URI (see configuration).
Since address loading should be fast, network accesses time-out after 5 seconds.
Care must be taken when configuring undervest not to select too many
results at a time: respect LDAP server limit. Beware also of LDAP referrals that
may possibly cause a connection to an alternate unreachable server.
If an attribute returned by LDAP server begins with (case-insensitive)
"\fBsmtp:\fR", this prefix is stripped-off before testing if the attribute
content is a valid e-mail address.
.SS Matchers
The first matcher is based on overlapping recipient name slices of maximum
length \fIn\fR called \fBn-grams\fR. In example: "john.doe" is made of the 6
n-grams "joh", "ohn", "hn.", "n.d", ".do" and "doe" for n = 3.
.P
A score is assigned to a possible match as: (2 * matching slice count) /
(target string slice count + test string slice count). If the score is lower
that the configured threshold, the n-gram match is discarded and the
word matcher is invoked.
.P
The word matcher slices the recipient names into:
.IP "-" 2em
Longest possible alpha substrings that match themselves.
.IP "-" 2em
Single decimal digits that match nothing.
.P
Other characters are considered as delimiters and do not generate slices.
.P
The same formula as for the n-gram matcher is then is applied to determine
the word matching score.
.P
The set of possible matches determines the fate of the recipient e-mail address:
.IP "-" 2em
There is a perfect match: the address is accepted.
.IP "-" 2em
No match has been found, the address is rejected.
.IP "-" 2em
There is more than one possible match: the address is accepted as given,
expecting it to fall into a mailbox where a human operator may reroute it.
.IP "-" 2em
A single match has been found: depending on the configuration, the
original address is accepted (see above) or it is replaced by the
guessed address.
.SS "Local domains"
E-mail addresses in local domains may be flagged as invalid by sendmail before
undervest is called: in this case, there is no way for the filter to reroute a
(slightly) bad address to a valid one. The only way to overcome this problem
is to define an LUSER_RELAY in sendmail's configuration: the LUSER_RELAY address
can be any valid address or a bit-bucket address to automatically ignore
e-mails not rerouted by undervest.
.SS "Sendmail configuration"
In /etc/sendmail.mc, set:
.P
define(`_FFR_MILTER', `1')dnl
.br
INPUT_MAIL_FILTER(`undervest', `S=\fBsocket\fR, F=, T=S:4m;;R:4m')dnl
.br
define(`confINPUT_MAIL_FILTERS', `...,undervest,...')dnl
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-d\fR
Increase the debug level. This option can be specified more than once to obtain
the desired debug level.
.TP
\fB-e\fR
Redirect all logging to the error output. Syslog is disabled.
.TP
\fB-l\fR
Log via syslog and error output.
.TP
\fB-n\fR
Do not daemonize: process is not detached, lock file and pid file are not
handled.
.TP
\fB-c\fR \fIconfiguration_file\fR
Specify the configuration file name. The default is /etc/undervest.conf.
.TP
\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR
Specify the user name or uid of the running process. The group will also be
set to the default group for that user.
Default running user is inherited from the launching process.
.TP
\fB-g\fR \fIgroup\fR
Specify the group name or gid of the running process. If used with \fB-i\fR,
the former should appear after the later on the command line.
Default running group is inherited from the launching process.
.TP
\fB-j\fR \fIjail_directory\fR
Change root directory of the process. It is the responsibility of the
configurator to have all needed files accessible when the process is jailed.
Default is to not change root.
.TP
\fBsocket\fR
This mandatory parameter specifies the socket to use to communicate with
sendmail. See sendmail documentation for the socket's name syntax.
.P
Note that a subset of these options can be tuned for invocation by the system in
/etc/sysconfig/undervest.
.SH FILES
/etc/undervest.conf, /etc/sysconfig/undervest.
.SH AUTHORS
Patrick Monnerat <pm@datasphere.ch>, DATASPHERE S.A.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
undervest.conf(5)
