.\"                                  \|||/
.\"                                 { o o }
.\"              *------------.oOO-----U-----OOo.------------*
.\"              *       D A T A S P H E R E   S . A .       *
.\"              *-------------------------------------------*
.\"              *                                           *
.\"              *                 UNDERVEST                 *
.\"              *                                           *
.\"              *  - Configuration file documentation.      *
.\"              *                                           *
.\"              *-------------------------------------------*
.\"              *                                           *
.\"              * Copyright (c) 2014 Datasphere S.A.        *
.\"              *                                           *
.\"              *   This software is licensed as described  *
.\"              * in the file LICENSE, which you should     *
.\"              * have received as part of this             *
.\"              * distribution.                             *
.\"              *   You may opt to use, copy, modify,       *
.\"              * merge, publish, distribute and/or sell    *
.\"              * copies of this software, and permit       *
.\"              * persons to whom this software is          *
.\"              * furnished to do so, under the terms of    *
.\"              * the LICENSE file.                         *
.\"              *   This software is distributed on an      *
.\"              * "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY    *
.\"              * KIND, either express or implied.          *
.\"              *                                           *
.\"              *-------------------------------------------*
.\"              * CREATION                                  *
.\"              *   P. MONNERAT                  03/03/2014 *
.\"              *--------------.oooO-----Oooo.--------------*
.\"
.TH undervest.conf 5 "Feb 28, 2014"
.SH NAME
undervest.conf \- The configuration file for the undervest milter
.SH SYNOPSIS
The undervest.conf file is a configuration file for the undervest milter.
The complete description of the file format and possible parameters held
within are here for reference purposes.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
The file consists of parameters and grouping sections. The formers can be
strings, numbers or lists (a curly-bracket enclosed list of blank-separated
values), they are expressed in the "variable = value" form.
The laters consist in a section name possibly followed by an identifier, then
a curly-bracket enclosed list of parameters and/or sub-sections.
.P
Comment lines denoted by a leading \fB#\fR are ignored.
.P
All parameters have a default value: thus an empty configuration file is valid.
.P
It is possible to include an external file using
"\fBinclude(\fIfile_name\fB)\fR"
anywhere a parameter or section name is expected. The content of the included
file replaces the \fBinclude\fR directive and thus must match the
expected directives at the level of inclusion.
.SH "GLOBAL PARAMETERS"
.IP "\fBloader-path\fR = {\fIpath_list\fR}"
Define the directory paths where data loader plugins are loaded from.
They are tried in order until a match is found.
The default is the system's installation directory path.
.SH "LOGGING OPTIONS"
They are enclosed in a "log" section:
.sp
\fBlog\fR {
.br
	...
.br
}
.IP "\fBminlevel\fR = \fIlog_level\fR"
Sets the minimum level that can be used for logging: log messages with a lower
level are not dropped but their level is raised to minlevel. Possible values are
\fBemergency\fR, \fBalert\fR, \fBcritical\fR, \fBerror\fR, \fBwarning\fR,
\fBnotice\fR, \fBinformation\fR and \fBdebug\fR.  Default is \fBdebug\fR.
.IP "\fBmaxlevel\fR = \fIlog_level\fR"
Similarly, limits the maximum logging level. Default: \fBemergency\fR.
.SH "SMTP OPTIONS"
They are enclosed in an "smtp" section:
.sp
\fBsmtp\fR {
.br
	...
.br
}
.IP "\fBstatus\fR = \fIsmtp_status\fR"
Sets the SMTP status value used to reject a recipient e-mail address. This
should be a 3-digit decimal integer value, in conformance with the SMTP
protocol. Default: 500.
.IP "\fBextended-status\fR = \fIextended_status_string\fR"
Sets the SMTP extended status returned when rejecting a recipient e-mail
address. This should be a dot-separated string of 3 single decimal digits and
conformant to the SMTP protocol. Default: "5.5.1".
.IP "\fBmessage\fR = \fIstring\fR"
Sets the SMTP message returned when rejecting a recipient e-mail
address. Default is "User unknown".
.SH "MAIL DOMAIN DESCRIPTIONS"
Each of them consists in a labelled section enclosing specific definitions:
.sp
\fBdomain\fR "\fIdomain_name\fR" {
.br
	...
.br
}
.P
There can be several domain definitions in a configuration. If no domain
section appears, the default is the single section \fBdomain "localhost" {}\fR.
.IP "\fBenabled\fR = \fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Enables/disables handling of the domain. Default: yes.
.IP "\fBautofix\fR = \fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Fixes an invalid recipient e-mail address when there's no ambiguity with
regard of the thresholds. Default: no.
.IP "\fBrefresh\fR = \fIseconds\fR"
Refreshes domain data every \fIseconds\fR. If 0, data are never refreshed.
Default: 0.
.IP "\fBretries\fR = {\fIseconds\fR ...}"
After a data loading failure, wait for \fIseconds\fR before retry. Periods are
expressed relative to the initial failure and thus may appear in any order.
An empty list \fB{}\fR may be specified. Default: {30, 300}.
.IP "\fBretry\fR = \fIseconds\fR"
Retry period to apply after all periods from the \fBretries\fR list are
exhausted. Set to 0 to disable retry. Default: 3600.
.IP "\fBn-gram\fR = \fIn-gram_size\fR"
The first fuzzy matching algorithm applied is based on overlapping text
slices call n-grams. This parameter allows specifying the maximum slice
length. Default is 3.
.SH "THRESHOLD OPTIONS"
They define the thresholds under which a fuzzy match is discarded. These options
are enclosed within a domain's subsection:
.sp
\fBthresholds\fR {
.br
	...
.br
}
.sp
Each threshold must be given as a floating point value between 0.0 (always
match) to 1.0 (full match only). As an exception, setting a value larger
than 1.0 never matches: this can be used to disable an algorithm.
.IP "\fBn-gram\fR = \fIthreshold\fR"
Define the threshold value for the n-gram fuzzy matcher. Default: 0.8.
.IP "\fBword\fR = \fIthreshold\fR"
Define the threshold value for the word fuzzy matcher. Default: 0.5.
.SH "SOURCE SUBSECTIONS"
These are subsections of the \fBdomain\fR sections. They describe valid
e-mail addresses sources and access.
.sp
\fBsource\fR {
.br
	...
.br
}
.P
If a domain does not list one or more sources, the default is:
.sp
\fBsource\fR {
.br
	\fBuri\fR = "file:///etc/passwd"
.br
}
.br
\fBsource\fR {
.br
	\fBuri\fR = "file:///etc/aliases"
.br
}
.sp
The following parameters may appear in a \fBsource\fR subsection:
.IP "\fBenabled\fR = \fByes\fR|\fBno\fR"
Enables/disables this particular source. Default: yes.
.IP "\fBloader\fR = \fIloader_name_or_path\fR"
Each source must specify a data loader: a module interfacing with the
(possible remote) data provider. It is possible to specify a loader as
an absolute path to a shared library, a relative (from the loader path
directories) path or a name that will be used with the loader paths to
build the shared library name.
At the time of this writing, only two loaders are provided sendmail and ldap.
The default is sendmail.
.IP "\fBuri\fR = \fIdata_source_uri\fR"
This parameter is passed to the loader to locate the target data. It
should be given as an URI, but a particular loader may restrict
its form (i.e.: a file URI for sendmail and an ldap/ldaps URI for ldap).
Note about ldap URIs: the bind dn and password may be given in the
authority part of the URI; selected attributes MUST be specified and contain
e-mail addresses or recipient names. Default: "".
.SH FILES
/etc/undervest.conf.
.SH AUTHORS
Patrick Monnerat <pm@datasphere.ch>, DATASPHERE S.A.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
undervest(8)
